i i
ASEAN CONSENSUS
ON THE PROTECTION AND 
PROMOTION OF THE RIGHTS 
OF MIGRANT WORKERS

ASEAN Consensus on the 
Protection and Promotion of the 
Rights of Migrant Workers
The ASEAN Secretariat
Jakarta

The Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) was established on 8 August 1967. The 
Member States are Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, Indonesia, Lao PDR, Malaysia, Myanmar, 
Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Viet Nam. 
The ASEAN Secretariat is based in Jakarta, Indonesia.
For inquiries, contact:
The ASEAN Secretariat
Community Relations Division (CRD)
70A Jalan Sisingamangaraja
Jakarta 12110
Indonesia
Phone:	 (62 21) 724-3372, 726-2991
Fax:	
(62 21) 739-8234, 724-3504
E-mail:	 public@asean.org 
ASEAN: A Community of Opportunities
Catalogue-in-Publication Data
ASEAN Consensus on the Protection and Promotion of the Rights of Migrant Workers
Jakarta, ASEAN Secretariat, March 2018 
331.544
1. ASEAN – Human Rights – Labour
2. Cooperation – Migration Policies
ISBN 978-602-6392-99-2
The text of this publication may be freely quoted or reprinted, provided proper acknowledgement is given and a copy containing the reprinted material is sent to the Community Relations 
Division (CRD) of the ASEAN Secretariat, Jakarta.

ASEAN 
CONSENSUS
ON THE 
PROTECTION 
AND 
PROMOTION 
OF THE 
RIGHTS OF 
MIGRANT 
WORKERS

Table of Contents
Chapter 1	 General Principles
Chapter 2	 Definitions
Chapter 3	 Fundamental Rights of Migrant Workers and the Members of Their Families
Chapter 4	 Specific Rights of Migrant Workers
Chapter 5	 Obligations of Sending States
Chapter 6	 Obligations of Receiving States
Chapter 7	 Commitments of ASEAN Member States
Chapter 8	 Amendments

ASEAN CONSENSUS ON THE 
PROTECTION AND PROMOTION OF 
THE RIGHTS OF MIGRANT WORKERS
The Governments of Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the Lao People’s Democratic 
Republic, Malaysia, the Republic of the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of 
Thailand, and the Socialist Republic of Viet 
Nam, Member States of the Association of 
Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), hereinafter collectively referred to as “ASEAN Member 
States” or individually as “ASEAN Member 
State”; 
CONVINCED that this Consensus will help establish a framework for cooperation on migrant workers in the region and contribute to the ASEAN Community building process; 
PURSUING the ASEAN vision of a caring and sharing ASEAN Community that is peopleoriented, people-centred, rules-based and socially responsible and where the well-being 
 and livelihood of the peoples are enhanced, as prescribed in the ASEAN 2025: Forging Ahead 
Together adopted at the 27th ASEAN Summit in 
2015 in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; 
REAFFIRMED our adherence to the purposes and principles of ASEAN as enshrined in the 
ASEAN Charter, in particular the respect for and promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the principles of democracy, the rule of law and good governance;
RECALLING the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights, Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women 
(CEDAW), Convention on the Rights of the 
Child (CRC), and other appropriate international instruments which ASEAN Member States are parties to, in order to safeguard the human rights and fundamental freedom of individuals; 
COMMITTING to implement the purposes and commitments contained in the ASEAN 
Declaration on the Protection and Promotion of the Rights of Migrant Workers adopted at the 12th ASEAN Summit in 2007 in Cebu, the 
Philippines; 

NOTING the achievements made by ASEAN 
Member States towards the protection and promotion of the rights of migrant workers, as well as the importance and usefulness of bilateral and multilateral agreements in this field;
CONFIRMING the shared and balanced responsibilities of the Receiving and Sending 
ASEAN Member States to protect and promote the rights of migrant workers and members of their families in the entire migration process;
RECOGNISING the contributions of migrant workers to the societies and economies of both 
Receiving and Sending States of ASEAN;
RECOGNISING the sovereignty of ASEAN 
Member States in determining their own migration policies relating to migrant workers, including determining entry into and departure from their territory and under which conditions migrant workers may remain;
RECOGNISING further the responsibilities of stakeholders within the entire migration process to abide by the laws, regulations and policies of Sending and Receiving States;

ACKNOWLEDGING the legitimate concerns of the Receiving and Sending States over migrant workers, as well as the need to adopt appropriate and comprehensive migration policies on migrant workers within their jurisdiction, including those related to labour intermediaries;
ACKNOWLEDGING also the need to address cases of abuses and violence against migrant workers whenever such cases occur;
HEREBY ADOPT THIS CONSENSUS AS 
FOLLOWS:
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PRINCIPLES
1.	 To implement the Consensus, ASEAN 
Member States will act in accordance with the following general principles:
(a)	Respect for the principles of ASEAN as embodied in Article 2 of the ASEAN 
Charter;

(b)	Strengthen the political-security, economic and social-cultural pillars of the ASEAN 
Community by promoting the full potential and dignity of migrant workers in a climate of freedom, equity and stability in accordance with the laws, regulations, and policies of respective ASEAN Member 
States;
(c)	Recognise that migrant workers have fundamental rights as stipulated in the applicable international and regional treaties which ASEAN Member States are parties to, in accordance with the prevailing national laws, regulations and policies of ASEAN Member States;
(d)	Uphold the fundamental rights and dignity of migrant workers without undermining the application by the Receiving States of their laws, regulations and policies; 
(e)	Uphold fair treatment with respect to gender and nationality, and protect and promote the rights of migrant workers, particularly women, in accordance with the obligations of ASEAN Member 
States under appropriate international instruments to which they are parties;

In Article 44 concerning family members of migrant workers already residing with them, the obligations of ASEAN Member 
States under appropriate international instruments to which they are parties shall apply; and
(f)	 Pursue a constructive, non-confrontational and cooperative approach to enhance the protection and promotion of rights of migrant workers.
2.	 This Consensus only covers migrant workers who are documented and those who become undocumented through no fault of their own. 
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
3.	 “Migrant worker” refers to a person who is to be engaged or employed, is engaged or employed, or has recently been engaged or employed in a remunerated activity in a 
State of which he or she is not a national. The applicability of the Consensus to different 
 categories of migrant workers shall be subject to the laws, regulations, and policies of respective ASEAN Member States.
4.	 For the purpose of this Consensus, an 
“undocumented migrant worker” is a person who fails to comply with the conditions provided for him or her to legally enter the 
Receiving State and to stay legally for the duration of employment pursuant to the applicable laws, regulations and policies of the Receiving State. This definition includes a migrant worker who has recently been in employment but is no longer legally employed in a remunerated activity.
This definition of an “undocumented migrant worker” is applied to Articles 56 and 57 of this Consensus. 
5.	 “Sending State” refers to the ASEAN 
Member State of which the migrant worker is a national.
6.	 “Receiving State” refers to the ASEAN 
Member State which hosts a migrant worker.

7.	 Fair treatment refers to just and reasonable treatment applied to migrant workers in the workplace with respect to working conditions, safety, and access to recourse in the event of employment subject to the prevailing national laws, regulations and policies of the Receiving State.
CHAPTER 3
FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS OF 
MIGRANT WORKERS AND THE 
MEMBERS OF THEIR FAMILIES
Pursuant to the prevailing national laws, regulations and policies of ASEAN Member 
States:
8.	 Migrant workers may be visited by their family members for purposes and length of time that the national legislations, regulations and policies of the Receiving 
State may allow.

9.	 Migrant workers have the right to hold their own passports and original governmentissued work and personal documents subject to laws, regulations, and policies of the Receiving State.
10.	Subject to national laws, regulations and policies of the Receiving states, migrant workers have the rights no less favourable than those applied to nationals of the 
Receiving States when they are committed to prison or placed in custody pending trial or while detained for any other reason.
11.	Migrant workers have the right to file their grievances with the relevant authorities of 
Receiving States and/or seek assistance from their respective embassies, consulates, or missions located in Receiving States.
12.	Migrant workers have the right to freedom of movement in the Receiving State, subject to laws, regulations and policies of the 
Receiving State.

CHAPTER 4
SPECIFIC RIGHTS OF MIGRANT 
WORKERS
Pursuant to the prevailing national laws, regulations and policies of ASEAN Member 
States:
13.	Migrant workers have the right to access information on matters pertaining to their employment and employment-related conditions from relevant authorities, bodies and/or recruitment agencies of Sending and 
Receiving States.
14.	Migrant workers have the right to be issued an employment contract or proper documentation by relevant authorities/ bodies and/or employers with clear and basic terms of employment subject to national laws, regulations, and policies. 
15.	Subject to national laws, regulations, and policies of the Receiving State, migrant workers have the right to fair treatment in the workplace.

16.	Migrant workers have the right to adequate or reasonable accommodation subject to national laws, regulations and policies of the 
Receiving State.
17.	(a)	Migrant workers, regardless of gender, have the right to fair and appropriate remuneration and benefits in accordance with the laws, regulations, and policies of the Receiving State.
(b)	If migrant workers leave the Receiving 
State, they should not lose their rights to benefits arising from their employment in accordance with the national laws, regulations, and policies of the Receiving 
State.
18.	Migrant workers have the right to transfer their earnings and savings in any modes of transfer in accordance with laws and regulations on currency transmission in the 
Receiving and Sending States.

19.	(a)	Migrant workers shall have the right to file a complaint or make a representation under the law relating to labour dispute in the Receiving State against termination of employment and/or breach of an employment contract in the Receiving 
State and, subject to the national laws, regulations, and policies relating to immigration, be allowed to continue staying in the Receiving State pending the disposal of his or her case.
(b)	If the decision on appeal is favourable to the migrant worker, he or she shall be entitled to any relief for loss of his or her rights arising from the employment contract.
20.	Migrant workers have the right to join trade unions and associations subject to the national laws, regulations and policies of the 
Receiving State.

CHAPTER 5
OBLIGATIONS OF SENDING STATES
Pursuant to the prevailing national laws, regulations and policies of the respective 
Sending States:
21.	The Sending State, in close coordination with the Receiving State, will organise a predeparture orientation/education programme, including human and labour rights, general working and living conditions, laws, policies, regulations, culture, norms, and practices of the Receiving State, avenues of assistance in the Receiving State and such other matters as will enable them to comply with administrative or other formalities of the 
Receiving State.
22.	The Sending State will ensure that migrant workers are informed and aware of the terms and conditions of their work through a written employment contract or proper documentation and in language that they understand.

23.	(a)	The Sending State will set reasonable, transparent, and standardised fees for passport issuance and other relevant documents.
(b)	The 
Sending 
State will likewise take necessary actions to prohibit overcharging of placement or recruitment fees by any parties chargeable to migrant workers in the Sending State.
24.	The Sending State will take all necessary actions to simplify the administrative processes for overseas placements such as, but not limited to, “one stop service centre” where appropriate.
25.	The Sending State will ensure migrant workers meet the health requirements of the 
Receiving State before departure.
26.	The 
Sending 
State will develop a comprehensive reintegration programme for returned migrant workers and their families as well as an employment programme for returned migrant workers taking into account their skills obtained overseas.

27.	The Sending State will take the necessary measures to promote better local employment and livelihood opportunities for their citizens as sustainable alternatives to migration of workers.
28.	The Sending State will ensure the right of returned migrant workers to establish associations, participate in policy making and programmes affecting migrant workers, and to access services for returned migrant workers and their family members in accordance with the national laws, regulations and policies of the Sending 
State.
29.	The Sending State will take appropriate actions against any parties within its territory who willfully destroy, mutilate, tamper, or forge travel, work, or personal identity documents of migrant workers issued by the 
Sending State.

CHAPTER 6
OBLIGATIONS OF RECEIVING STATES
Pursuant to the prevailing national laws, regulations and policies of the respective 
Receiving States:
30.	The Receiving State will, in accordance with its national legislations, regulations, and policies, protect the fundamental human rights, promote the welfare and uphold human dignity of migrant workers.
In doing so, the Receiving State will take necessary and appropriate measures to: 
(a)	Ensure fair treatment towards migrant workers; and
(b)	Prevent abuses, exploitation and violence towards them.
31.	The Receiving State will make every effort to issue authorisation for migrant workers to stay and engage in employment for at least the same period of time as they are authorised to engage in the remunerated 
 activity where separate authorisations to stay and engage in employment are required by national laws and regulations.
32.	The Receiving State will in accordance with its national legislations, regulations, and policies:
(a)	Undertake employer education programmes to explain the procedure for legally hiring a migrant worker; 
(b)	Take appropriate actions against employers who illegally detain migrant workers; 
(c)	Take appropriate actions against employers who willfully destroy, mutilate or confiscate a migrant worker’s passport and work permit issued by any government agency; and
(d)	Take appropriate actions against employers who illegally employ migrant workers1. 
33.	The Receiving State will take necessary actions to prohibit overcharging of placement or recruitment fees chargeable to migrant workers by any parties in the 
Receiving State.

 The term “take appropriate actions” in Article 32.b, 32.c, and 32.d was understood by 
ASEAN Member States as a broader term that may include “penalisation”.

34.	The Receiving State will, through its relevant authorities or bodies, ensure that migrant workers are provided with adequate information within reasonable timeframe among others of their rights and responsibilities, occupational safety and health measures, avenues of assistance after their arrival in accordance with the labour laws, policies and regulations, and customs and traditions of the Receiving 
State.
35.	The Receiving States will promote harmony and tolerance with the view of providing the conditions under which migrant workers are able to integrate with local communities as well as their religions, and customs and traditions subject to the national legislations, regulations and policies.
36.	(a)	The 
Receiving 
State will issue regulations or guidelines prescribing the terms and conditions of employment that must be included in employment contracts or proper documentation for migrant workers in accordance with the legislations, regulations, and policies of the Receiving State. 

(b)	The Receiving State will ensure that migrant workers are provided with a copy of employment contract or proper documentation for their work in accordance with the applicable legislations, regulations, and policies of the Receiving State.
(c)	The Receiving State will regulate the employment of migrant workers by ensuring that clear employment terms and conditions, such as wages, employment benefits, working conditions, health and safety, employment dispute mechanisms and repatriation are provided in national laws, regulations, contracts of employment, or other appropriate documentation. 
37.	The Receiving State will ensure that migrant workers are provided with fair and appropriate remuneration and other benefits in accordance with the applicable national legislations, regulations, and policies of the 
Receiving State.

38.	The Receiving State will in accordance with its national legislations, regulations, and policies, provide migrant workers the right to join trade unions and associations.
39.	The Receiving State will, in accordance with its national legislations, regulations, and policies, ensure that migrant workers are provided with adequate or reasonable accommodation.
40.	The Receiving State will, in accordance with its applicable national legislations, regulations and policies, provide fair treatment to migrant workers in respect of:
(a)	Working condition and remuneration;
(b)	Occupational safety and health protection;
(c)	Protection from violence and sexual harassment; and
(d)	Gender and nationality in the workplace. 
41.	The Receiving State will provide migrant workers with access to adequate medical and health care in accordance with the applicable laws, regulations and policies of the Receiving State.

42.	(a)	The Receiving State will facilitate migrant workers with access to legal recourse and assistance, including language interpretation if necessary, when they become victims of discrimination, abuse, exploitation and/or violence in accordance with the national laws, regulations, and policies;
(b)	The 
Receiving 
State will facilitate the exercise of consular functions by consular or diplomatic authorities of the 
Sending States when a migrant worker is arrested or committed to prison or custody or detained in any other manner under the laws, regulations, and policies of the Receiving State and in accordance with the Vienna Convention on Consular 
Relations of 1963.
43.	The Receiving State will protect the employment rights of migrant workers during repatriation including ensuring the compliance with the applicable/relevant repatriation processes of the Receiving 
State upon termination of employment contract/work pass.

CHAPTER 7
COMMITMENTS OF 
ASEAN MEMBER STATES
For purposes of protecting and promoting the rights of migrant workers, ASEAN Member 
States in accordance with the national laws, regulations, and policies, will:
44.	Take into account the fundamental rights and dignity of migrant workers and family members already residing with them without undermining the application by the Receiving 
States of their laws, regulations and policies;
45.	Consult and cooperate with a view to promoting decent, humane, productive, dignified and remunerative employment for migrant workers;
46.	Endeavor to recognise an employment contract containing the terms and conditions of employment;
47.	Collaborate in promoting human resources and skills development of migrant workers;

48.	Collaborate to take concrete measures to prevent and eliminate any illegal or clandestine movement involving migrant workers and employment of migrant workers in an irregular situation, with due regard to the safety, welfare, and access to justice of migrant workers;
49.	Collaborate to raise public awareness and disseminate accurate information on labour migration;
50.	Enforce laws, regulations and policies related to the protection of migrant workers including those related to labour intermediaries within the jurisdiction of each ASEAN Member 
State;
51.	License, regulate, and supervise public and private recruitment agencies with a view to eliminating recruitment malpractices and to ensuring compliance with the law, regulations, and policies of the respective 
ASEAN Member States. In doing so, ASEAN 
Member States will adopt effective measures to eliminate malpractices in the recruitment system;

52.	Take measures to ensure effective prevention and suppression of smuggling and trafficking in persons, establishment and implementation of systems to identify victims, stiffer penalties for those who are involved in these activities, and provision of support for victims; 
53.	Facilitate information sharing through development or strengthening of their respective database and information systems on matters relating to migrant workers, for the purpose of enhancing policies and programmes concerning migrant workers in both Sending and Receiving States;
54.	Enhance cooperation aiming at:
(a)	Building capacity and sharing of information including on laws, regulations, policies, and practices in relation to protection and promotion of migrant workers’ rights and welfare;
(b)	Encouraging constructive dialogue, consultation, cooperation, and regular exchange of information, for the purpose of effective enforcement of policies and programmes concerning migrant workers;

55.	Cooperate and coordinate to extend assistance to migrant workers who are caught in conflict or crisis situations in the Receiving 
States through the services of Embassies and 
Consular Offices of the Sending States and authorities in the Receiving State;
56.	For humanitarian reasons, closely cooperate to resolve the cases of migrant workers who, through no fault of their own, have subsequently become undocumented;
Nothing shall be interpreted as implying the regularisation of the situation of undocumented migrant workers;
57.	Take measures to prevent and curb the flow of undocumented migrant workers and explore cooperation and coordination among ASEAN 
Member States in providing assistance to those who are in need of protection subject to prevailing national laws, regulations and policies of ASEAN Member States;
58.	Encourage collaboration with ASEAN Dialogue 
Partners and other countries, international organisations, and other stakeholders in respecting the principles and taking measures to protect and promote the rights of migrant workers as contained in this Consensus;

59.	Develop, through the ASEAN Committee on the Implementation of the ASEAN Declaration on the Protection and Promotion of the Rights of Migrant Workers (ACMW), an action plan based on consensus to protect and promote the rights of migrant workers as reflected in the Consensus, report the progress of implementation of the Consensus and its action plan to the ACMW, and may share best practices including those from the existing bilateral engagements between 
ASEAN Member States. The progress of the implementation of this Consensus and its corresponding action plan will be subject to review by ACMW;
60.	Endeavor, through ACMW, to resolve peacefully all disputes which concern the interpretation of this Consensus in a timely manner through good offices and consultation in the spirit of the ASEAN Charter.

CHAPTER 8
AMENDMENTS
61.	Any 
Member 
State may propose amendments to this Consensus.
62.	Proposed amendments to this Consensus shall be submitted by the 
ASEAN 
Coordinating Council by consensus to the 
ASEAN Summit for its decision. 

Done at Manila, the Philippines, this Fourteenth 
Day of November in the Year Two Thousand and Seventeen, in a single original copy in the 
English Language.
For Brunei Darussalam:
HAJI HASSANAL BOLKIAH
Sultan of Brunei Darussalam
For the Government of the Kingdom of 
Cambodia:
SAMDECH AKKA MOHA SENA PADEI TECHO HUN SEN
Prime Minister

For the Republic of Indonesia:
JOKO WIDODO
President
For the Lao People’s Democratic Republic:
THONGLOUN SISOULITH
Prime Minister
For Malaysia:
DATO’ SRI MOHD NAJIB BIN TUN ABDUL RAZAK
Prime Minister

For the Republic of the Union of Myanmar:
AUNG SAN SUU KYI
State Counsellor
For the Republic of the Philippines:
RODRIGO ROA DUTERTE
President
For the Republic of Singapore:
LEE HSIEN LOONG
Prime Minister

For the Kingdom of Thailand:
GENERAL PRAYUT CHAN-O-CHA (RET.)
Prime Minister
For the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam:
NGUYEN XUAN PHUC
Prime Minister

ASEAN 
DECLARATION 
ON THE 
PROTECTION 
AND 
PROMOTION 
OF THE 
RIGHTS OF 
MIGRANT 
WORKERS

ASEAN DECLARATION ON THE 
PROTECTION AND PROMOTION OF 
THE RIGHTS OF MIGRANT WORKERS
WE, the Heads of State/Government of the 
Member Countries of the Association of 
Southeast Asian Nations (hereinafter referred to as ASEAN), attending the 12th ASEAN Summit on 13 January 2007 in Cebu, Philippines;
RECALLING the Declaration of ASEAN Concord 
II adopted at the 9th ASEAN Summit in Bali, 
Indonesia, which stipulated the establishment of an ASEAN Community resting on three pillars: an ASEAN Security Community, an ASEAN 
Economic Community and an ASEAN SocioCultural Community;
RECALLING also the Universal Declaration on Human Rights adopted and proclaimed by 
General Assembly Resolution 217(A)(III) of 10 
December 1948, as well as other appropriate international instruments which all the ASEAN 
Member Countries have acceded to, in order to safeguard the human rights and fundamental freedoms of individuals such as the Convention 
 on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the Convention on the 
Rights of the Child;
RECALLING further the Vientiane Action 
Programme adopted at the 10th ASEAN Summit in Vientiane, Lao PDR, which provides for, inter alia, the promotion of human rights and obligations to realise an open, dynamic and resilient ASEAN Community;
CONFIRMING our shared responsibility to realise a common vision for a secure and prosperous ASEAN Community by improving the quality of life of its people and strengthening its cultural identity towards a people-centered 
ASEAN through, among others, measures on the protection and promotion of the rights of migrant workers;
RECOGNISING the contributions of migrant workers to the society and economy of both receiving states and sending states of ASEAN;
RECOGNISING further the sovereignty of states in determining their own migration policy relating to migrant workers, including determining entry into their territory and under which conditions migrant workers may remain;

ACKNOWLEDGING the legitimate concerns of the receiving and sending states over migrant workers, as well as the need to adopt appropriate and comprehensive migration policies on migrant workers;
ACKNOWLEDGING also the need to address cases of abuse and violence against migrant workers whenever such cases occur;
REITERATING that ASEAN should make further progress as a cohesive and caring society committed to enhancing the quality of life and well being of its people, especially those in the vulnerable and disadvantaged sectors;
HEREBY DECLARE AS FOLLOWS: 
GENERAL PRINCIPLES
1.	 Both the receiving states and sending states shall strengthen the political, economic and social pillars of the ASEAN Community by promoting the full potential and dignity of migrant workers in a climate of freedom, equity, and stability in accordance with the laws, regulations, and policies of respective 
ASEAN Member Countries;

2.	 The receiving states and the sending states shall, for humanitarian reasons, closely cooperate to resolve the cases of migrant workers who, through no fault of their own, have subsequently become undocumented;
3.	 The receiving states and the sending states shall take into account the fundamental rights and dignity of migrant workers and family members already residing with them without undermining the application by the receiving states of their laws, regulations and policies; and
4.	 Nothing in the present Declaration shall be interpreted as implying the regularisation of the situation of migrant workers who are undocumented.
OBLIGATIONS OF RECEIVING STATES
Pursuant to the prevailing laws, regulations and policies of the respective receiving states, the receiving states will:
5.	 Intensify efforts to protect the fundamental human rights, promote the welfare and uphold human dignity of migrant workers;

6.	 Work towards the achievement of harmony and tolerance between receiving states and migrant workers;
7.	 Facilitate access to resources and remedies through information, training and education, access to justice, and social welfare services as appropriate and in accordance with the legislation of the receiving state, provided that they fulfill the requirements under applicable laws, regulations and policies of the said state, bilateral agreements and multilateral treaties;
8.	 Promote fair and appropriate employment protection, payment of wages, and adequate access to decent working and living conditions for migrant workers;
9.	 Provide migrant workers, who may be victims of discrimination, abuse, exploitation, violence, with adequate access to the legal and judicial system of the receiving states; and
10.	Facilitate the exercise of consular functions to consular or diplomatic authorities of states of origin when a migrant worker is arrested or committed to prison or custody or detained in any other manner, under the laws and 
 regulations of the receiving state and in accordance with the Vienna Convention on 
Consular Relations.
OBLIGATIONS OF SENDING STATES
Pursuant to the prevailing laws, regulations and policies of the respective sending states, the sending states will:
11.	Enhance measures related to the promotion and protection of the rights of migrant workers;
12.	Ensure access to employment and livelihood opportunities for their citizens as sustainable alternatives to migration of workers;
13.	Set up policies and procedures to facilitate aspects of migration of workers, including recruitment, preparation for deployment overseas and protection of the migrant workers when abroad as well as repatriation and reintegration to the countries of origin; and
14.	Establish and promote legal practices to regulate recruitment of migrant workers and adopt mechanisms to eliminate recruitment malpractices through legal and valid contracts, regulation and accreditation of recruitment agencies and employers, and blacklisting of negligent/unlawful agencies.

COMMITMENTS BY ASEAN
For purposes of protecting and promoting the rights of migrant workers, ASEAN Member 
Countries in accordance with national laws, regulations and policies, will:
15.	Promote decent, humane, productive, dignified and remunerative employment for migrant workers;
16.	Establish and implement human resource development programmes and reintegration programmes for migrant workers in their countries of origin;
17.	Take concrete measures to prevent or curb the smuggling and trafficking in persons by, among others, introducing stiffer penalties for those who are involved in these activities;
18.	Facilitate datasharing on matters related to migrant workers, for the purpose of enhancing policies and programmes concerning migrant workers in both sending and receiving states;
19.	Promote capacity building by sharing of information, best practices as well as opportunities and challenges encountered by ASEAN Member Countries in relation to protection and promotion of migrant workers’ rights and welfare;

20.	Extend assistance to migrant workers of 
ASEAN Member Countries who are caught in conflict or crisis situations outside ASEAN in the event of need and based on the capacities and resources of the Embassies and Consular Offices of the relevant ASEAN 
Member Countries, based on bilateral consultations and arrangements;
21.	Encourage international organisations, 
ASEAN dialogue partners and other countries to respect the principles and extend support and assistance to the im plementation of the measures contained in this Declaration; and
22.	Task the relevant ASEAN bodies to follow up on the Declaration and to develop an ASEAN instrument on the protection and promotion of the rights of migrant workers, consistent with ASEAN’s vision of a caring and sharing 
Community, and direct the Secretary General of ASEAN to submit annually a report on the progress of the implementation of the 
Declaration to the Summit through the 
ASEAN Ministerial Meeting.

DONE at Cebu, Philippines, this Thirteenth 
Day of January in the Year Two Thousand and 
Seven, in a single original copy in the English 
Language.
For Brunei Darussalam:
HAJI HASSANAL BOLKIAH
Sultan of Brunei Darussalam
For the Kingdom of Cambodia:
SAMDECH HUN SEN
Prime Minister

For the Republic of Indonesia:
DR. SUSILO BAMBANG YUDHOYONO
President
For the Lao People’s Democratic Republic:
BOUASONE BOUPHAVANH
Prime Minister
For Malaysia:
DATO’ SERI ABDULLAH AHMAD BADAWI
Prime Minister

For the Union of Myanmar:
GENERAL SOE WIN
Prime Minister
For the Republic of the Philippines:
GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO
President
For the Republic of Singapore:
LEE HSIEN LOONG
Prime Minister

For the Kingdom of Thailand:
GENERAL SURAYUD CHULANONT (RET.)
Prime Minister
For the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam:
NGUYEN TAN DUNG
Prime Minister

ASEAN
ASEAN
ASEAN: A Community of Opportunities