WORKMEN’S 
COMPENSATION ACT 
B.E. 2537 (1994) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Social Security Office 
Ministry of Labour 
Thailand 
 
 
Technical Information and Planning Division 
Social Security Office 
August 2007 

Workmen’s Compensation Act 
B.E. 2537 
 
 
 
 
 
BHUMIBOL ADULYADEJ, REX. Given on the 15th day of June, B.E. 2537 
Being the 49th year of the Present Reign. 
 
 
His Majesty King Bhumibol Adulyadej is graciously pleased to proclaim that ; 
Whereas it is expedient to revise the Law on Labour protection in connection with Compensation and Compensation Fund; 
Be it, therefore, enacted by the King, by and with the advice to the Parliament as follows : 
 
 
Article 1 This Act is called “Workmen’s Compensation Act, B.E. 2537” 
 
 
Article 2 This Act shall come into force as from the day following the date of its publication in the Government Gazette. 
 
 
Article 3 Clause 2(6) and Clause 9 of the Announcement of the National Executive council No. 103, dated 16 March B.E. 2515 and Clause 3 and Clause 10 of the Announcement of the National Executive Council No. 103, dated 16 March B.E. 2515 which is modified by the Act amending the Announcement of the National Executive Council No. 103 (No. 1st) B.E. 
2533, are hereby repealed, 
Any other laws, rules and regulations in so far as they are prescribed in this Act or are contrary to, or inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, shall be replaced by this Act. 

Article 7 This Act shall not apply to : 
(1) Central Administration, Provincial Administration and Local Administration, 
(2) State enterprise on the law of the state enterprise official relationship, 
(3) employer who operates the private school business under the law on the Private school, specific with regard to the teachers or the headmasters, 
(4) employer who undertakes non-profit activity, 
(5) others employers as specified in the Ministerial Regulation 
 
 
Article 5 In this Act 
“employer” means a person agreeing to accept an employee for work by paying him or her wages, and includes a person entrusted by an employer to act on his or her behalf, in the case an employer is a juristic person, it shall include the person authorized to act on behalf of such juristic person and the person entrusted by such authorized person to act thereon ; 
“employee” means a person agreeing to work for an employer in return for wages irrespective of designation but excluding an employee who is employed for domestic work which does not involve in business ; 
“wages” means all types of money which are paid by an employer to an employee in return for the work done during normal working hours and days, whether to be calculated by the duration or the result of the work being done, and includes money which an employer pays to an employee for holidays and leaves on which the employee does not work, regardless of the way it is specified, calculated or paid, in any nature or method, and the name used ; 
“Sufferings from injury” means physical or mental injury or death suffered by an employee as the result of work employment or in the course of protecting interest of the employer or according to the commands of the employer, 

“sickness” means illness suffered by an employee as the result of work caused by diseases incidental to the nature or the condition of work. 
“Disappearance” means an employee is disappeared in the period of working or acting under the commands of the employer to whom believe reasonable that he is death because of suffering injury during the work or the connection of commands of the employer including the employee who is absent in the period of travelling by land, air or waterway vehicles in order to work for the employer to whom believe reasonable that vehicles are damaged from accident and the employee is death, but all these things happened in the period of not less than a hundred and twenty days as from the date of accident. 
“Loss of the capability” means to be lost of organ or ability of working of the body or the mental after the hospitality by the medical method come to an end. 
“Compensation” means money which are paid as indemnity, medical expense, rehabilitation expense and funeral expense, 
“Indemnity” means money which an employer pays to an employee, or the entitled person thereto under Article 20 for injury, or sickness or loss of an employee. 
“Medical expense” means expense concerning medical examination, treatment, nursing and other necessary medication in order to relieve or end the result of injury or sickness including expense for equipment or articles substituting or helping for the injured organ. 
“Expense of industrial rehabilitation” means the expense necessary for rehabilitation in working. 
“Industrial rehabilitation” means to manage the employee who suffers from the injury or sickness and loss of working capability to receive the physical or mental rehabilitation or occupational rehabilitation in order to be capable to perform the works according to the physical condition. 

“Funeral expense” means expense incurred in respect of funeral arrangement according to the customs of the deceased employee or according to the local customs; in the case an employee died as the result of suffering from injury or illness or disappearance. 
“Contributions” means the money which is paid to contribute by an employer to become the compensations for an employee. 
“Fund” means the Workmen’s Compensation Fund. 
“Office” means Social Security Office or Provincial Social Security Office, as the case may be. 
“Committee” means the Workmen’s Compensation Fund Committee. 
“Member” means a member of the Workmen’s Compensation Fund, 
“Secretary – General” means Secretary – General of the Social Security Office, 
“Competent Official” means a person appointed by the Minister for the execution of this Act, 
 
 
Act. 
 
 
“Minister” means the Minister having charge and control of the execution of this 
 
 
 
Article 6 The Minister of Labour and Social Welfare shall have charge and control of the execution of this Act and shall have powers to appoint competent officials and to issue 
Ministerial Regulations, Rules and Promulgations for the execution of this Act, 
The Ministerial Regulations, Rules and Promulgations shall come into force upon their publication in the Government Gazette. 

Section 1 
General Provisions 
 
 
Article 7 The claims or the obtaining of the right or the benefit under this Act, does not deprive the right or the benefit which the employee is obtained under the other laws. 
 
 
 
Article 8 The Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare shall have the power to appoint the competent official who is qualified person having academic title not less than the bachelor degree of Law in order to have power to bring and to plead an action concerning the indemnity according to this Act for an employee or a person entitled under Article 20. 
The employee or the person entitled under Article 20 who wish the competent official to bring or to plead an action according to the first paragraph, shall have the right to file an application to the Office according to the regulations prescribed by the Secretary- 
General. 
 
 
Article 9 Debts as the result of non payment the compensation, contributions or additional payment according to this Act, the employee of the Office shall have preferential right over all properties of the employer who is debtor at the same level of preferential right on taxation value according to the Civil and Commercial Code. 
 
 
Article 10 In the case where an employer who is the subcontractor, does not pay the compensation, contribution or additional payment to the proceding subcontractor even it is having thoroughly the line to the principal contractor who is not an employer being jointly liable with the subcontractor who is an employer being obligated to pay the compensation contribution or additional payment, 

The principal contractor or the subcontractor who is not an employer having paid compensation, contribution or additional payment, shall have the right to recourse against an employer and all the subcontractor for compensation, contribution or additional payment. 
 
 
Article 11 In the case where the entrepreneur who has employed by the wholesale wages method, assigned consigning to any person to subrogate to control the work and to have responsibility for payment of wages to each person, or assigned to any person to procure and employ on employee to do the work which is not the business enterprise on the type of the procuring affairs, by the way of that work is the part or the whole parts of the process of production or business being under the responsibility of the entrepreneur, if such person who has employed by the wholesale wages, had not paid an indemnity, a contribution or an additional payment to the employee or the Office, the entrepreneur or the person who employs by the wholesale wages, is not the employer, shall be jointly liable with the person who has employed by the wholesale wage, who is the employer for the payment compensation, contribution or additional payment as being an employer. 
The entrepreneur or undertakes of a package deal, who is not an employer, and had paid compensation, contributions, additional payment, shall have the right to recourse against the employer and all other undertaker of a package deal thoroughly the line in order to receive compensation, contributions, additional payment, which have been paid to the employee or the 
Office. 
 
 
Article 12 in the case where there are prescription of time for contribution payment, information on list of any items to the Fund, applying for compensation, appeal as prescribed in this Act or Regulations or announcement issued under this Act, if the person who has duties to execute in due time, is not in the territory, or is unable to execute in due time as the result of unavoidable necessity the Secretary-General if it deems appropriate, shall extend or postpone the said due time. 

Section 2 
Compensation 
 
 
Article 13 In the case where an employee suffers from injuries or sickness, an employer shall provide immediately medical treatment for employee in proportion to injuries or sickness, and shall pay necessary medical expenses not exceeding the rate as prescribed in 
Ministerial Regutions. 
The employer shall pay immediately the medical expense under paragraph on when the employer’s party informed to the employer. 
 
 
Article 14 The Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare shall announce and prescribe the types of diseases as a result of the nature or condition of work or performing the work. 
 
 
Article 15 In the case where an employer has to obtain industrial rehabilitation after suffering from injuries, or sickness, the employer shall pay for rehabilitation expense in accordance with the rules, procedures and the rate as prescribed in the Ministerial Regulations. 
 
 
Article 16 In case where the employee suffers from injuries or sickness causing death or disappearance, the employer shall pay funeral expense to the person who proves having arranged the funeral at the amount of one hundred times of the highest rate of the minimum daily wages under the Law on Labour Protection. 

Article 17 In the case where the employee suffers from injuries or sickness causing death without having any funeral administrator, the employer shall make funeral arrangement until there shall be the entitled person under Article 20, requesting to be the funeral administrator. But the employer shall not pay the funeral expense exceeding the one-third of the funeral expense under Article 16. If the employee has been dead for seventy-two hours, and there is not any entitled person under Article 20 requesting to be the funeral administrator, the employer shall make funeral arrangement according to the religion customs of the employee who is dead or the local customs by considering to the social conditions of the employee. For this respect, the employer shall pay the remaining funeral expense. 
 
 
Article 18 When the employee suffers from injuries or sickness or disappeared, the employer shall pay the monthly indemnity to the employee or the entitled person under Article 
20 as the case may be as follows: 
(1) Sixty per cent of the monthly wages where the employee is unable to work for more than three consecutive days, not withstanding such employee has or has not lost an organ under (2), with the payment to be made from the first day the employee is unable to work until and throughout the time he is unable to work but not exceeding one year. 
(2) Sixty per cent of the monthly wages where the employee has lost certain organs of the body, the payment shall be made according to the category of the organs lost and the period of payment as prescribed by the Announcement of the Ministry of Labour and Social 
Welfare, but not exceeding ten years; 
(3) Sixty per cent of the monthly wages where the employee suffers from disablement, the payment shall be according to category of disablement and to the period of payment as prescribed by the Announcement of the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare, but not exceeding fifteen years. 
(4) Sixty per cent of the monthly wages in case of the death of employee or disappearance, within eight years. 

Sufferings from injuries or sickness, causing loss of organs or the working capability of the certain part of organ, the indemnity shall be calculated in percentage of the period specified for the loss of organs or working capability of that category of organs as prescribed by the Announcement of the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare. 
The rules and procedures of calculation of the monthly wage, shall be in according with the announcement of the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare. 
The indemnity under paragraph one or paragraph two must not be less than the minimum monthly indemnity and not more than the maximum monthly indemnity as prescribed by the Announcement of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security Welfare. 
 
 
Article 19 In the case where the employer pays the indemnity under Article 18 (2) or (3) and the employee is subsequently dead whereas he does not obtain indemnity within the termination of period of indemnity according to the entitlement, the employer shall pay indemnity to the entitled person under Article 20 until termination of the period under the right, but the total period for indemnity payment shall not be more than eight years. 
 
 
Article 20 When an employee suffers from injuries or death as the result of illness or disappearance, the following persons shall be entitled to the compensation from the employer. 
(1) parents, 
(2) hunband or wife; 
(3) son or daughter under eighteen years of age, except those who are eighteen years of age and still studying of not higher than bachelor degrees, that person shall continue to receive the share throughout the period of study; 
(4) son or daughter from the age of eighteen years and is suffering from disablement or mental infirmity who has been cared for by the employee before the employee is dead or disappeared; 

Son or daughter who was born within three hundreds and ten days as from the date of the death of the employee or the date of disappearance, shall be entitled to compensation as from the date of confinement. 
In the case where there is no entitled person under paragraph one, the employer shall pay compensation to the dependent person of the employee before he died or disappeared. But such person must suffer from lacking of support from the employee who died or disappeared. 
 
 
Article 21 The entitled person under Article 20 has right to receive a share of compensation equally. 
In the case where the entitlement for compensation is exhausted because any entitled person under Article 20 is dead or husband or wife remarried or did not remarry but there are circumstances showing that taking as a husband or wife with other woman or other man or son have not the qualities under Article 20 (3) or (4), the part of the person whose right is exhausted due to any cause shall be contributed to the other entitled person. 
 
 
Article 22 The employer shall not pay compensation in case of sufferings from injuries or sickness of the employee causes by the following cases: 
(1) The employee loses self-control as the result of taking alcoholic drink, or becoming addicted. 
(2) The employee willfully causes himself suffering injuries or allows other person to cause him suffering from injuries. 
 
 
Article 23 The employer shall not deduct compensation for any matter and such compensation is not under execution of judgments. 

Article 24 For the purpose of compensation payment under Article 18 or Article 19 the employer and employee of entitled person under Article 20, as the case may be, may agree to pay in full amount of indemnity for one time, or for other agreed time, but the employer shall not deduct the said compensation exceeding the rate prescribed by the Ministerial 
Regulations. 
 
 
Article 25 For the purpose of paying compensation under this Section, in the case where the employer who has duty to pay compensation, the Office, instead of the employer shall pay compensation to the employee or the entitled person under Article 20. but if the employer had advanced compensation to the employee or the said entitled person and if it is in the case where the competent official who issued his decision considering that the employee or the entitled person had right to receive compensation, the employer shall apply for receiving advanced compensation from the Office, according to the regulations prescribed by the 
Secretary-General. 
In the case where the employer has not duty to pay contribution and had advanced compensation to the employee or the entitled person under Article 20. If the employee or the entitled person has right to receive compensation under the order of the competent official under Article 50 or the new order under Article 51, the employer shall have right to deduct the amount of compensation prescribed by the order of the competent official from the compensation paid to the employee or the said entitled person, but not exceeding the amount of each category of compensation as prescribed by the order of the competent official. 

Section 3 
Workmen’s Compensation Fund 
 
 
Article 26 There shall be a fund in the Social Security Office called “Workmen’s 
Compensation Fund” to be utilized for paying compensation for the employer who has duty to pay contributions under Article 44, and for the expense under Article 43. 
The Workmen’ s Compensation Fund under the Announcement of the National 
Executive Council No. 103, dated 10 March B.E. 2515 which is modified by the Modified Act of the Announcement of the National Executive Council No. 103, dated 10 March B.E. 2515 
(No.1) B.E. 2533 shall be the Fund under this Act. 
 
 
Article 27 The Fund shall consist of: 
(1) Compensation Fund under Article 26 paragraph two 
(2) contributions, 
(3) interest of the Fund under Article 29; 
(4) additional payment according to Article 46; 
(5) money becoming property of the Fund under Article 47; 
(6) fines collected through settlement under Article 66; 
(7) properties received as donation or subsidy; 
(8) other incomes; 
(9) interest of the Fund 
 
 
Article 28 For the purpose of execution of this Act, it shall be deemed that money and properties of the Fund under Article 26 is the property of the Social Security Office and shall not be sent to the Ministry of Finance as the national income, and instead of the employer, the Office shall pay as compensation according to this Act. 

The Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare has right to contribute to the Fund, but not exceeding twenty-two percent of the annual interest of the Fund for the expense for medical care and industrial rehabilitation of the employees as prescribed by the Announcement of the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare, and for the expense for the promotion or protection of industrial safety and not exceeding three percent of annual interest of the Fund for the expense for the operation of the Office of Workmen’s Compensation Fund, and for the expense under Article 43 
 
 
Article 29 The receipts, payment and safekeeping of the Fund and investment of the Fund shall be in accordance with the regulations prescribed by the Committee with the approval of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security Welfare. 
 
 
Article 30 Within one hundred and twenty days as from the last day of calendar year, the Office shall submit the balance-sheet and the statement of incomes and expenditures of the Fund in the foregoing year to the Office of Auditor-General of Thailand to be audited and certified and submit to the Committee. 
The Committee shall submit the said balance-sheet and statement of income and expenditures to the Minister to further submit to the Cabinet for information and it shall be published in the Government Gazette. 

Section 4 
Workmen’s Compensation Fund Committee and Medical Committee 
 
 
Article 31 There shall be a Committee called “Workmen’s Compensation Fund 
Committee” consisting of the Secretary-General of the Social Security Office as the chairman, six qualified persons, three representatives of employees and three representatives of employers appointed by the Minister as members, and a representative of the Office as a member and secretary. 
Appointing qualified persons under the first paragraph, the Minister may appoint qualified person of whom at least shall be qualified person in medical affairs, in legal affairs, in economic affairs, in financial affairs, in social security system, or in affairs of insurance. 
 
 
Article 32 The committee shall have the following powers and duties: 
(1) to submit opinions to the Minister in regard to policy concerning administration of the Fund and the compensation payment. 
(2) to consider and give opinions to the Minister in respect of the issuance of the 
Ministerial Regulations and rules for the execution of this Act. 
(3) to issue regulations, with the approval of the Ministry of Labour and Social 
Welfare, in regard to receipts, payments and safe-keeping of the Fund. 
(4) to issue regulations, with the approval of the Ministry of Labour and Social 
Welfare, in regard to the productive investment of the Fund. 
(5) to decide on appeals under Article 52. 
(6) to provide consultation and give advice for the execution of this Act to the 
Social Security Office. 
(7) to perform other duties as prescribed in this Act to be powers and duties of the 
Committee or being assigned by the Minister. 

In the performance of duties under the first paragraph, the Committee may assign the Social Security Office to perform duties. 
 
 
 
 years. 
Article 33 A member appointed by the Minister shall hold Office for a term of two 
 
 
The member who vacates his Office may be reappointed, but not more than two consecutive terms. 
 
 
Article 34 In addition to vacating Office at the end of the term under Article 33, any committee member appointed by the Minister shall vacate his Office upon: 
(1) death, 
(2) resignation, 
(3) dismissal by the Minister, 
(4) being a bankrupt, 
(5) being insane or mentally unfit, 
(6) being imprisoned by a final judgement to imprisonment. 
In the case where a member appointed by the Minister vacates his office before the expiration, the Minister shall appoint another person of the same status according to Article 31 to fill vacancy. The appointed member shall hold office for remaining period of the term of the member he replaces. 
 
 
Article 35 In the case where members appointed by the Minister have completed the term of his office but new committee has not yet been appointed, the retiring committee member shall remain in office and conduct their duties until the new appointees take charge of their duties. 

Article 36 At a meeting of the Committee, the presence of not less than one-half of the total number of members shall constitute a quorum. 
For a meeting of the Committee, if the chairman is not present at the meeting or is unable to perform his duty, the members present shall elect one among themselves to presides over the meeting. 
The decision of the meeting shall be made by a majority of votes. Each member shall have one vote. In the case of and equality of votes, the Chairman of the meeting shall have an additional vote as a casting vote. 
 
 
Article 37 At a meeting of the Committee, if a member of the committee has a personal advantage in the case which is being considered, he has no right to attend the meeting. 
 
 
Article 38 There shall be a Medical Committee consisting of a Chairman and other members, totally not more than fifteen persons appointed by the Minister. 
The Member of the Committee under the first paragraph shall be appointed from qualified persons in various fields of medical profession. 
The Minister shall appoint an official of the Social Security Office as a member and secretary. 
 
 
 
The provisions of Article 33, Article 34, Article 35, Article 36(2) shall apply mutatis mutandis. 
 
 
Article 39 At a meeting of a Medical Committee, the presence of less than five persons shall constitute a quorum. 

Article 40 The Medical Committee shall have the following powers and duties: 
(1) to submit opinions to the Committee in regard to the performance in rendering medical services. 
(2) to provide consultation services and give advice on medical matters to the 
Committee and the Office. 
(3) to submit opinions to the Office in regard to the Ministerial Regulations issues under Article 13 and the Announcement of the Minister of Labour and Social Security Welfare issued under Article 14 and Article 18(2), (3). 
(4) to perform other duties as prescribed in this Act to be powers and duties of the 
Medical Committee or as entrusted by the Minister or by the Committee. 
 
 
Article 41 The Committee or the Medical Committee may appoint a sub-committee to consider or perform any duties assigned by the Committee or Medical Committee. 
At a meeting of a Sub-committee, the provision of Article 36 shall apply mutatis mutandis. 
 
 
Article 42 The Committee, the Medical Committee and the Sub-committee shall have power to summon any person to submit documents, items, or data which are necessary for consideration. In this respect, they may order the persons concerned to give statement. 
 
 
Article 43 The Committee, the Medical Committee and the Sub-committee may receive meeting allowance, transport allowance, meal allowance, lodging allowance, and other expenses in performing their duties under this Act in accordance with the regulation prescribed by the Minister. 

Section 5 
Contribution 
 
 
Article 44 The Minister of Labour and Social Security Welfare shall announce and designate the category and dimension of business and locality where the employer shall pay contribution. 
The employer who has duties to pay contribution under the first paragraph, shall submit the form of payment of contributions and the statement specifying names of employees as prescribed by the Secretary-General, and shall pay contributions at the Office where the employer submit forms of registration of payment of contributions within thirty days as from the date on which the employer is required to pay contributions. 
 
 
Article 45 For the purpose of collecting contributions from the employer under 
Article 44, the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare shall prescribe the rate of contributions not more than five percent of annual wages received from the employer, the rate of deposit in the case where the employer is asking for paying fractionally contributions, but not exceeding twenty-five percent of annual contributions, the assessment and method of collection of contributions from the employer, including necessary rules and procedures in order that the 
Office is able to comply with the purpose. 
For designating the rate of contributions under the first paragraph, it shall take in account the statistics relating to suffering from injuries of each category of businses, the burden of the Fund and the amount of remaining fund. 
The Ministry of Labour and Social Security Welfare shall announce and prescribe rules and procedures of deduction or addition of contributions under the first paragraph to the employer according to the loss ratio of the employer for a period of three-calendar years. 

Article 46 Any employer who fails to pay contributions in due time or has paid but not in full amount, the employer shall pay an additional payment at the rate of 3 percent per month of the outstanding contributions which has not been paid. 
 
 
Article 47 The Secretary-General has the power to issue written warrant to confiscate, attach and sell by auction the properties of the employer who fails to pay contributions or an additional payment or fails to pay it in full amount. 
The order to confiscate, attach or sell by auction the properties may be issued after having delivered a written warning to the employer to pay the outstanding contributions (and) / or additional payment within a fixed period of not less than thirty days as form the date of receiving the warning and the employer fails to pay within the prescribed period. 
Rules and procedures of confiscation, attachment and sale by auction of properties under the first paragraph shall be in accordance with the regulations prescribed by the 
Minister, in this respect, the rules and procedures under the Civil Procedure Code shall apply mutatis mutandis. 
The money obtained from the said auction shall be deducted for expenses of confiscation, attachment and auction and for payment of outstanding contribution and additional payment. Any remaining money shall be immediately returned to the employer, if the employer does not claim for this remaining money within five years, it shall become the property of the Fund. 

Section 6 
To submit claims, consider claims and Appeal 
 
 
Article 48 In the case where the employee suffers from injuries, sickness or disappearance, the employer shall notify the suffering from injury, sickness, or disappearance to the Office in a locality where the employee works, or at the residence of the employer according to the form prescribed by the Secretary-General within 15 days as from the date on which the employer has been known of the loss suffering from injury, sickness or disappearance of the employee. 
 
 
Article 49 In the case where the employee suffer from injury, sickness or disappearance, the employee or the person entitled under Article 20 shall submit claims to the 
Office for receiving compensation in a locality where the employee works, or at the residence of the employer according to the form prescribed by the Secretary-General within on hundred and eighty days as from the date of suffering from injury, sickness or disappearance of the employee, as the case may be. 
 
 
Article 50 Where there is notification of suffering from injury, sickness, or disappearance under Article 48 or entry of notion for receiving compensation under Article 49, or it has appeared to the Official that the employee suffers injury, sickness or disappearance, investigating officer shall order the employer to pay immediately compensation to the employee or the person entitled under Article 20 according to the form prescribed by the 
Secretary-General. 
If the employee or the person entitled under Article 20 have right to receive compensation according to the order under the first paragraph, the official shall prescribe the value of compensation and shall fix the time for paying compensation and shall order the employer to pay the said compensation to the employee within seven days from the date on which the employer has been known that order. 

The employer shall pay compensation to the employee or the person entitled under 
Article 20 at the Office of the employee or other place where the employer and the employee designated by mutual agreement or at the Office. 
 
 
Article 51 When it has thereafter appeared that the consequences of suffering from injuries or sickness of the employee had changed and had caused the order relating to payment of compensation under Article 50 does not comply with Article 18, or Article 19, the official shall have a power to order the employer to repay compensation, but that order will be taken into effect at the next payment of the compensation. 
In the case where the facts cause mistake to the order relating to compensation under Article 50, the official shall have a power to order the employer to repay compensation. 
In the case where the sickness occurred after the time of cessation of being an employee, the employee shall make a request to the employer for receiving compensation at the Office of the employee or the residence of the employer within two years from the date on which the employer has been known of the sickness. 
 
 
Article 52 In the case where an employer, an employee or a person entitled under 
Article 20, upon receiving the order, decision, or assessment of contributions calculated by the official under this Act, is dissatisfied with the order, or decision, or assessment of contribution, he shall be entitled to lodge an appeal in writing to the Appeal Committee within thirty days as from the date of receiving such order, decision or assessment of contributions unless it is the order issued under Article 47. 
After having considered the appeal, the Appeal Committee shall inform the decision in writing to the appellant. 

Article 53 If the appellant is dissatisfied with the decision of the Appeal 
Committee, has the right to bring the case to the Labour Court within thirty days as from the date of notification of the decision. If the case is not brought to the Labour Court within the said period, the decision of the Appeal Committee shall be final. 
In the case where the person who is required to pay contributions according to decision of the Appeal Committee under the first paragraph, is the person who brought the case to the Court, he shall deposit the total amount of money to pay according to the decision of the 
Appeal Committee in order to have right to bring the case to the Court. 
After the case has become final, the person who brought the case to the Court under paragraph two, shall pay compensation according to the judgement. And the Court shall have powers to pay money deposited by that person to the Office in order to pay compensation to the employee or the person entitled under Article 20 thenceforward. 
 
 
Article 54 In the case where the employee of the employer under Article 44, the entitled person under Article 20, or the employer under Article 44, appeal in writing or bring the case to the Court. Such appeal or entry of action in Court does not suspend the execution of that order or decision of the official or decision of the Appeal Committee, as the case may be. 
 
 
Article 55 In the case where the employer lodges an appeal against the assessment of contributions or brings the case to the Court, such appeal or entry of action in Court does not suspend the execution of the decision of the Secretary-General, or of the competent official. If the Secretary-General allows the employer for waiting the decision of the Appeal 
Committee or judgement, the employer shall pay compensation within thirty days as from the date of receiving the decision of the Appeal Committee, or from the date on which the judgement has been finalized, as the case may be. 

Article 56 The provisions of Article 46, Article 47, Article 52, Article 53, Article 
55 and Article 60 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the principle contractor and to the subcontractor who are not the employer under Article 10, and the entrepreneur or the persons who employ employees by the wholesale wages method and not the employers under Article 11. 
 
 
Section 7 
Competent Officials 
 
 
Article 57 In the performance of duties under this Act, a competent official shall have the following powers; 
(1) to enter the establishment of office of an employer, work place of an employee, between sunrise and sunset or during working hours to inspect or inquire into facts, to inspect properties or other documents, to take photographs, to photocopy documents relating to employment, wages payment, employer records, payment of contributions, or other relevant documents or to take the relevant documents for examination or for other appropriate action in order to obtain facts for the execution of this Act. 
(2) to issue letter of inquiry or summon any persons to give information or to produce relevant items or documents or other necessities for examination. 
(3) to confiscate or attach or sell properties by auction according to the order of the 
Secretary-General under Article 47. 
 
 
Article 58 In the performance of duties of competent official under Article 57, the person concerned shall provide appropriate facilities as the case may be. 

Article 59 In the performance of duties, the competent official must show his identity card, if requested by the person concerned. 
The identity card of competent official shall be in a form prescribed by the 
Minister. 
 
 
Article 60 In the performance of duties under this Act, the competent official shall be a competent official under the Penal Code. 
 
 
 
Section 8 
Service of documents 
 
 
Article 61 Service of order, decision, notification or notification indicating the assessment of contributions of the Committee, Sub-Committee, Secretary-General or 
Competent Official, shall be delivered by reply registered mailing or by hand delivery of the office or competent official to the domicile or resident or office of the employer between sunrise and sunset or during working hours of the employer. In the case where the employer is not present at his domicile or office or the employer is present but he refuses to receive the documents, the documents may be delivered to the sui juris person who lives or works in the home or office apparently belongs to the employer. 
In the case where the delivery as specified under paragraph one can not be made, the service of order decision, notification or notification indicating the assessment of contribution shall be posted in a conspicuous or the domicile or resident of the employer. After having completed such delivery and a period of not less than fifteen days has passed , the employer is deemed to have received service of order decision, notification or notification indicating the assessment of contribution. 

Section 9 
Penalty Provisions 
 
 
Article 62 Any employer who does not provide medical treatment to the employee who suffers from injuries or sickness under Article 13, or fails to comply with Article 17,44 or 
48 shall be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to a fine not exceeding ten thousand bahts or to both. 
 
 
Article 63 Any employer who fails to comply with the order of Committee, 
Medical Committee, or Sub-committee under Article 42, or the order of the Competent 
Official under Article 57(2) or does not provide appropriate facilities to the Competent Official who is performing his duties under Article 58, shall be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one month or to a fine not exceeding two thousand bahts or to both. 
 
 
Article 64 Any employer who does not pay compensation according to the order of competent official under Article 50 or Article 51, and who did not appeal under Article 52, or who did not bring the case to the Court under Article 53, shall be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand bahts or to both. 
 
 
Article 65 Any person who has or acquires knowledge of any fact through performing the duty under this Act, discloses any fact concerning the affairs of an employer which normally would be kept confidential by an employer, shall be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one month or to a fine not exceeding three thousand Bahts, or to both, unless such disclosure is for the purpose of official performance under this Act, or for labour protection, investigation or adjudication. 

Article 66 All offence under this Act, if the following competent official consider that an offender does not deserve penalty of imprisonment or prosecution for offence, he shall have the power to settle the offence as follows: 
(1) The Secretary-General for the offence committed in the Bangkok Metropolitan. 
(2) Provincial Governor for the offe nce committed in other provinces. 
In the case where there is an investigation and if the investigating officer is of the opinion that a person has violated this Act, and that person agrees to be settled, the investigating official shall submit a report to the Secretary-General or the Provincial Governor, as the case may be, within seven days as from the date of that person agreeing to be settled. The decision whether it will be settled or not is in consideration of the official under paragraph one or two, as the case may be. 
The settlement of the case under this Article, the person who has power to settle the offence, shall settle the fine, not less than one-half of the rate of the offence as prescribed for that offence. And when the offender has paid the fine at the assessed amount within thirty days, it shall be deemed to be settled according to the Penal Procedure Code. 
If the offender does not agree to have the case settled or after having agreed to have the case settled, fails to pay the fine within the prescribed period under paragraph three, the case shall be further proceeded. 
 
 
Transitory Provisions 
 
 
Article 67 The employer who has duty to pay contributions according to the 
Announcement of the Ministry of Interior as prescribed in the Announcement of the National 
Executive Council, No.103 dated March 16, B.E. 2515 amended by the Act amending the announcement of the National Executive Council, No.103, dated 16 March B.E. 2515 (No.1) 
B.E. 2533 before the date of enforcement of this Act, shall continue to pay contributions at the rate prescribed by the Ministry of Interior, according to the Announcement of the Ministry of 
Labour and Social Welfare under Article 45, come into force. 

Article 68 Any person who is entitled to receive compensation from the employer, according to the Announcemnt of the Ministry of Interior issued by the Announcement of the 
National Executive Council No.103, dated 16 Mach B.E.2515 which is modified by the 
Modified Act of the Announcemnt of the National Executive Council No.103, dated 16 March 
B.E. 2515 (No.1st) B.E. 2533, before the date of coming into force of this Act, shall receive compensation under this Announcement of Ministry of Interior, until he receives totally according to the said entitlement. 
 
 
Article 69 In the case where the request is not finalize or the case is in the course of the trial before the date of coming into force of this Act, the Announcement of the Ministy of 
Interior as they are prescribed in this Announcement of National Executive Council, No.103, dated 16 March B.E. 2515 which is modified by the Modified Act of the Announcement of the 
National Executive Council No.103, dated 16 March B.E. 2515 (No.1), B.E. 2533 shall apply until that request or that case become final. 
 
 
Article 70 Any other Announcement or order in so far as thay are prescribed in this 
Announcement of National Executive council No.103, dated 16 March B.E. 2515 which is modified by the Modified Act of the Announcement of the National Executive Council No. 
103, dated 16 March B.E. 2515 (No.1) B.E. 2533 shall continue to apply whenever it does not contrary or inconsistent with this Act until there shall be Regulations of Ministry, rule, announcement or order issued by this Act, come into force. 

Countersigned by 
Mr. Chuan Leekpai 
Prime Minister 
 
 
Remark: Announcement of Government Gazette, volume of Council of State (No.111) 
A. dated 30 June B.E.2537. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Edited by 
 
 
Foreign Relations Section 
Technical Information and 
Planning Division 
Social Security Office 
 
 
August 2007